# Virtual-Counsellor
The increasing pressure that comes from school today has been impacting adolescents prone to psychological illnesses. Students who suffer psychologically, are often unwilling to share their problems and struggles with others and even more not likely to seek psychological assistance due to the fear of bad judgement. In the era of evolving technology, chatbot is introduced to be people's virtual companion, when they need someone to talk to. However, chatbot usually works in such a programmatic and predictable way that people only engage with the bot for a while and after that, they lose interest in it. A chatbot to be helpful must be able to recognize people's emotions. Hence, the Virtual Counsellor mobile application embedded with Speech Emotion Recognition chatbot is proposed to solve these issues. In the methodology, three phases need to be conducted in the development of this project. First phase focuses on developing mobile application for students to be able to improve and manage their mental health. The second phase is the implement a chatbot that is able to read the emotion of the user through tone expression. Third phase is to evaluate the user experience of the developed mobile application through User Experience Questionnaire (UEQ). The User Experience Questionnaire and Chatbot presented a positive feedback from testing participant with the UEQ overall scale of positive 1.375. The participant also believe that Virtual Counsellor have a great potential to help students that have difficulties to seek for psychological assistance physically. Throughout the study, a Virtual Counsellor mobile application is created with the implementation of Speech Emotion Recognition Chatbot as an alternative for someone who have difficulty in meeting counsellor to seek psychological help. The development of the application is expected to increase mental health awareness among students of Universiti Malaysia Sabah.
